thank you for joining us I'm TJ nahigian
and I'm joined by my partner Lucy and
we're going to be chatting with you for
the next 30 minutes on six things that
Founders should be asking themselves to
drive value from generative AI so let's
get started hi everyone I'm Lucy fona
I'm a partner at base 10 joined TJ and
the team about two and a half years ago
to lead our growth investing efforts and
I've spent the last 18 months or so with
TJ going as deep as we possibly can in
generative Ai and super excited to share
what we have learned with you guys just
to give a little bit of background Bas
10 is a research driven investment firm
focusing on companies that are
automating the largest sectors of the
real economy and like most Venture firms
we've been trying to figure out what is
going to happen with generative Ai and
we're going to share at least what we're
observing today and why we think it's a
a platform shift that both incumbents
and upstarts can truly take advantage of
to build significant value so last year
we were one of the first BCS to actually
share some of our research publicly on
what we were seeing in generative AI the
first piece we published was one that
looked at the platform layer and the
application layer and essentially set
out some questions and some hypotheses
that we were starting to toy with as we
saw the impact of this technology we
then very quickly follow that up with a
piece on essentially the infrastructure
tooling or the middle W layer that was
helping platforms and applications
essentially use each other to be able to
build we learned a bunch from sharing
some of that research and essentially we
have a Friday meeting where we go
through our research every Friday and we
are always asking ourselves okay what
have we learned what did we get wrong
last time and what are we seeing in
front of us today now as VCS our job
isn't really to try to predict the
future even though sometimes it seems
like that's what we're trying to do as
VCS we are really just trying to look at
what is in front of us and see what's
there and what's imminently clear is
that generative AI is a platform shift
and it's fundamentally changing a lot
about technology today similar to Cloud
social and mobile and so I've been
fortunate in my career to see a few
different platform shifts originally
Cloud then mobile and social both
happening at the same time we think
generative AI is going to be a platform
shift we didn't always think that and I
can chat through why so before starting
base 10 seven years ago I was a Founder
I founded uh a mobile business called
jobber it was a mobile job Marketplace
and even though we were a mobile
business we really viewed ourselves as a
Data Business most of our team was
engineers and data scientists and we
would use data basically to make the job
application process move much more
smoothly on your mobile device and we
ended up using data a lot we built out
our own taxonomies we used the latest
machine learning models to train and run
our recommendation engine but I was
always so frustrated even though we had
an amazing team we had a great data set
we got very little value out of machine
learning in AI back in 2013 2014 it was
just it felt really inaccessible but
that all changed so that all changed
when open AI came out with gpt3 about
two and a half years ago and for the
first time generative AI actually became
accessible not just to the huge
companies and mega businesses out there
allot the Facebooks the Googles of the
world it actually became usable for
developers and since then we've seen
significant advancements up and down the
stack both from upstarts and incumbents
and our view is that not every platform
shift looks alike but they all tend to
have different similar characteristics
and so we're going to take a lot of the
learnings that we've seen from cloud or
from mobile and apply them to generative
AI one thing that is true and Lucy's
going to talk about this in a second is
when you started building in cloud in
the early 2000s you were a cloud
business now every business is a cloud
business job or the business I started
was a mobile business now every business
is a mobile business same thing's going
to happen with generative AI yeah and
you might be thinking AI is not new and
we certainly agree with you and
obviously the quickest way to become a
skeptic is to try to build a business
using AI which we've definitely many of
us on the team have but what we can
actually see if we just take a look at
the last five years is that something
pretty ground shifting is happening the
most powerful models ever made in AI
were all formed in the last 5 years and
you can see some of them on this page
here but if even if you take a look at
just the pace of innovation the number
of patents filed in 2021 in AI was
essentially 30 times the number that was
published six years earlier and if we
just project out and keep that pace of
innovation think of what's going to
happen in the next 5 years we think
essentially we're at the very cusp of a
golden age in Ai and if we take one of
the lessons that we learned from cloud
is that cloud really sped up the pace of
development by a lot if we take that and
take a look at what might happen with
generative AI what we expect to see at
base 10 is that the speed of both
development and deployment is just going
to accelerate so dramatically it's going
to make our head spin in the next few
years and we're really excited about
what that's going to create for for
Innovation and for opport unities for
investment the other way we look at this
is just by looking at how much Venture
funding is going into the sector for
those of you founders of the last 18 to
24 months has not been the easiest or
most fun time to fund raise in fact
oftentimes impossible but that's with
one exception that is if you are an AI
business and we're seeing that happen
across different parts of the
application in infrastructure layer and
that is already a very large number I
think the number last year is over four
billion raised in and even actually even
the first half of last year this year
we're expecting that to be it's already
five times more than it was last year
which is five times more than the year
before Venture funding doesn't
necessarily mean things are perfectly
going to work but oftentimes that is a
good indicator of where there is a lot
of innovation happening so as investors
it's really helpful for us to have some
framework by which we can understand the
universe and who's building where so
we're going to walk you guys through the
framework that we use at base 10 and
then we'll walk through what we've
observed in every one of these segments
and therefore how that's impacting our
own investment thesis maybe there's some
helpful lessons in there for anyone
building in these segments so
essentially there's two big categories
incumbents and upstarts are both
leveraging this technology since it's
like
electricity but within those categories
we see platforms infrastructure and
applications so the platforms you can
essentially think about as the model
layer that's your Google and your metas
and incumbents and your upstarts are
obviously your open AI hugging face
coars those businesses at the
infrastructure layer it's anyone
essentially allowing you to use these
largely generalizable models to
essentially create something with a more
specific use case so those are your
piics and shovels and in we'll have more
on this a little bit later but Nvidia is
the huge winner here on the incumbent
side and on the upstart side we've spent
time with great businesses like Lambda
pine cone and Lang chain might also ring
a bell and finally our last bucket is
the applications and we could probably
even split this into both horizontal and
vertical applications we've chosen to
keep it simple uh but on the incumbent
side you have your Notions gorgeous you
could probably take Google meta
Microsoft and run them through every
single bucket here and on the upstart
side of
applications names like Jasper copy and
Harvey should probably be familiar to
the audience so that's how we think of
the world so at the platform layer we
think of this really as the model layer
open AI is a clear Giant in the room
they've originally started as a fully
open source business we all know there
was some drama led to Elon Musk actually
no longer working with the business and
now are a closed Source but they were
really the first ones to come out with
scalable large language model ironically
they were unable to do that because
Google created the Transformer model and
open source that a few years prior which
they needed in order to actually create
their original llms the first popular
one gpt3 came out two two and a half
years ago and since then we've seen
dramatic acceleration happen there but
it's not just open AI who's now raised
10 billion plus dollars most recent
round LED by Microsoft there's a host of
others that are innovating here from
businesses like hugging face coh here AI
21 just announced another very large
fund raise last week stability AI
anthropic and others so we're seeing a
ton of innovation happen here this is
creating new llms and other models that
folks are using to actually get value
out of generative Ai and moving on how
are they actually doing this they're
building their own tooling but also
they're leveraging third party tooling
as our other upstarts and incumbents and
the infrastructure layer is a really
interesting one so this is tooling that
enables you to actually tweak different
models integrate them scale them in a
cost- effective way observe them and do
a whole host of others L chains are
really popular framework in order to
actually integrate and get value out of
generative AI but there's a whole host
of different areas here of startups that
are actually innovating at the
infrastructure layer to enable folks to
actually have more control and get more
value and cut down costs as they scale
out generative AI for their specific
applications uh now the applications at
the upstart layer so we actually started
here in our research and there's a lot
of fascinating Innovation happening here
and the way that we think about it is
essentially changing mediums like text
and writing image video and audio and
even code so we've now gotten to spend
time with great businesses like Jasper
and copy and WR Sonic that are
fundamentally chaining how text and
writing can happen but we've also met
businesses changing how you create music
or essentially recreating and disrupting
how films are made or dubbed or even
companies like repet that are disrupting
the way that programmers code or and
that's all on the upstart side so these
businesses essentially have scaled
incredibly fast and the way that they've
done that is they've taken these large
foundational models and they've wrapped
it in what sometimes feels like a really
magical experience for the end user that
has allowed them to scale remarkably
quickly what we have seen though in the
applications in upstarts is that a lot
of them are now facing challenges and
those challenges essentially boil down
to one word and that's retention
retention has been tough for some of
these and there's a couple of reasons
why that might be and think about it for
th those that are selling to Enterprises
often they're selling to experimental
budgets and sometimes those budgets just
run out right the other reason might be
that some are actually selling to more
of a prosumer base but we know that
prosumers are actually a very churny
inherently very churny base and that can
be really tough as well and then I think
that the last thing is with this wave of
Innovation we've actually seen a lot of
copycats so even if you just take a look
at the list of Founders building in the
last YC batch there's probably five or
six doing the same e-commerce customer
support effort and so then it becomes
really difficult not only for for the
founder to be able to tell a very
differentiated Story the user also might
not be able to see where the
differentiation is so remember that word
retention is a challenge and if you're
building here you got to be a little bit
more strategic about this so you've
heard what we're seeing at the upstart
level we're now going to tell you a
little bit about what we're seeing at
the incumbent level which is also very
exciting and starting with incumbents
we'll start first really at the platform
layer again think of this as the
foundational model and I think it's been
really interesting to study how each of
these three large incumbents is playing
it they're all actually taking a very
different strategy Google I think as I
mentioned before we'll start there they
actually came out with the Transformer
model and then eventually open sourced
it that enabled llms and other models to
be built leveraging generative AI I
think they were caught a bit on their
heels when they saw how fast open AI was
able to commercialize their offering and
since then Google has been actually
rethinking of themselves again truly as
an AI company coming out with b and
trying to innovate in other areas up and
down the stack um meta is another really
interesting one to study they've had
incredible technology that they've been
leveraging primarily for their ad model
for their recommendation engine across
their ads and monetizing that in a very
material way over the last seven to
eight years but also their feed model
and content model as well they came out
in open source llama to It's actually an
unbelievably powerful model and it'll be
interesting to see what happens with
that I know a lot of entrepreneurs that
we work with are now actually starting
to leverage that versus open AI models
and lastly Microsoft Microsoft I
actually think has done a master class
in strategy here for us where they've
actually opted really to partner in
somewhat Outsource Innovation they did
that with open AI early on initially
gave them a billion dollars most
recently 10 billion do and actually have
a lot of I would say preferred access as
well as rights and control over open AI
so that was not free money by any means
and what's interesting is if you look at
the market caps of these businesses the
share price of these businesses they've
all done incredibly well this year if
you read any of their earnings reports
two years ago the term AI came up maybe
once twice in an earnings call on
average now it's coming up a 100 plus
times in an earning call in an earnings
call from these businesses and anyways I
think this will be fascinating I imagine
Business Schools are going to be
studying the strategy of these three
incumbents at the platform layer going
forward we'll see how it plays next
we'll talk about the infrastructure
layer how do you actually enable folks
to do this and and perfect example here
is NVIDIA uh NV is the creator
popularizer of gpus gpus necessary to
run llms and they've seen insane demand
for gpus just this last quarter they
announced at their earnings Revenue was
up over 100% in the corner in the
quarter which is insane Nvidia is now a
top five company in the world by market
cap and truly propelled by this it's
probably the best Pure Play incumbent
infrastructure company out there there
but again those other companies I
mentioned a lot of the Facebooks Amazon
Googles of the world also benefit
tremendously from this via their Cloud
offerings as well we're seeing a ton of
value actually be created and captured
by these incumbents at the
infrastructure lay yeah over under
Nvidia gets to 700 finally we're going
to talk a little bit about the
incumbents at the application lever
which have by no means been sleeping at
the wheel and the reason why Nvidia is
benefiting so much isn't just because
you have applications at the upst level
it's because every single company is
essentially developing an AI strategy
and no executive essentially wants to be
caught without an answer as to what
they're doing with generative Ai and you
can see that just in the sheer number of
instances in which these companies are
talking about generative AI to their
investors that's increased over 80%
year-over-year if we look at earnings
calls but something that's actually an
even more dramatic shift that we're very
excited about is all the engineers we're
talking to essentially are infinitely
more productive and that's because
GitHub Cod pilot is now writing 50% of
code and that's every other line of code
to put that in perspective and that is
not only incredible when you think about
the pace at which these applications can
innovate if you just think about the
access and the democratization of who
can actually create that can get you
really excited about what's Happening
Here I think even us lonely VCS will
probably be able to create these slides
with maybe Microsoft's co-pilot next
year which would be great but service
now for example has also added
generative AI capabilities into their
product so you can actually do
summarization and texted code in there
and TJ and I spent a bunch of time with
our sort of growth stage portfolio
companies understanding how they're
thinking about generative AI companies
like notion and what we are seeing is
that these businesses are actually being
absolute ninjas about experimenting
really quickly with generative Ai and
some of the lessons that we've seen is
that one they're often doing it in-house
they're just experimenting with open
source tools and just building as they
go the second thing we've seen is in
addition to just using their own
Engineers is they're often going out and
trying to buy or partner the way you
might see in some other waves sometimes
they're Aqua hiring but that I think is
fundamental lesson if you're trying to
sell to some of these businesses because
a lot of them are actually building in
house and it's important to keep that in
mind so now you guys have a view of how
we see the landscape now we're going to
take you into a little bit of our
investment thesis and where we're
focusing a lot of our time and what we
think are some lessons for the folks in
the room and as we're doing that one of
the things that we're spending time on
is understanding where generative AI
actually is going to have true product
Market fit and and one lesson that we've
learned in the past when we've observed
platform shifts is companies that
weren't necessarily built for XYZ
platform shift for cloud for mobile Etc
happen to be perfectly positioned for
that so there's a few early categories
that we've been drilling into these are
areas like customer support at base 10
we work with six or seven businesses in
the customer support space and I can
tell you that the expectations from
purchasers of that software is
incredibly High about what generative AI
can do for their end user experience the
reality is a bit far off still although
it's starting to converge and we're
seeing this happen not just in customer
support with businesses like intercom
which has fin some of you guys may use
it they're saying it automates about 50%
of chats or gorgeous as well we're
seeing that happen across a whole host
of other areas so in devops when we were
getting started at Job the business I
started I used to do QA brutal you had
to do it manually now actually you can
automate a lot of that using generative
AI we're seeing that happen in legal
documents we're seeing it happen across
low and no code applications and getting
more value out of that we're seeing that
happen in medical billing actually
reducing again human workers and we're
seeing it happen in in data providers
clear bits a good example of that which
essentially just relaunched their entire
platform three or four days ago
leveraging generative AI so Lucy maybe
you can chat through what our original
hypothesis was and what it's changed to
yeah when we first started we were
throwing darts at the wall in terms of
what would actually drive defensibility
where were where would the real Moes be
found and we had five areas that we
thought might be those so we saw
businesses like Jasper really leveraging
the community and brand they' built over
many years we saw others like copy
really leaning into the user education
everyone essentially said that they
would have access to proprietary data or
that they got the workflows of their
customers the best or maybe they would
be able to hyper customize in a way
where they would win but now TJ and I
are pretty sure that only three things
matter and it's whether you can
distribute so it's distribution it's
your data and it's the workflows only
these three things matter and because
only these three things matter what that
has meant for us as investors is we
actually are developing a thesis that a
lot of the value not all but a lot of
the value in this early platform shift
is going to be captured with in by the
incumbents and naturally it's because
they already have huge advantages on
distribution data and workflows uh over
their uh upstart competitors so we're
going to walk through some case studies
where we've seen that and then open to
any challenges from the audience so one
great case study is a business called
case text uh for those of you unfamiliar
uh it's a legal software platform they
actually sell into midmarket and
Enterprise law firms uh if any of you
have ever tried to sell to a law firm or
interacted with a law firm you know can
be quite challenging uh getting through
legal review at a place like or is no
easy task casex has been doing that for
the last 11 years and they built
actually a pretty strong platform doing
so but the business got up to about 10
million or so of recurring run rate
Revenue installed out over the last few
years so that's about 10 years in if
you're sitting there as the founder of
that business you're thinking oh man
this is tough what am I going to do been
flat for a while here then generative AI
comes out they were able to easily plug
in to initially uh gbt 3 then three and
a half now four and launch their version
of co-pilot called co-counsel which
actually will go out and do a lot of the
tasks that a lawyer needs to do
routinely in their work in terms of
surfacing information summarizing that
and then actually creating responses to
that they launched this at the end of
last year and that product took off so
they launched it as an add-on went from
Z to 9 million of AR in seven months
created a ton of Interest both from VCS
but also from strategics and a few weeks
ago they announced they were getting
acquired by Thompson Reuters for about
$650 million in cash Thompson Reuters
historically incredibly price sensitive
buyer right but they were able to do
this because they already had
distribution into these law firms and
those law firms really wanted to use AI
turns out if you were an upstart you
actually had a hard time getting through
legal review with these law firms right
they also had data as well and so they
were able to leverage that into huge
ground swell that reignited their
business and drove a bunch of growth and
great outc for them maybe you can talk
about our portfolio yeah I love the case
text example but I love the notion
example even more in our portfolio we've
gotten now to spend a lot of time with
this team I also use it every day so
I've been able to leverage the benefits
of notion AI in my own workflow which
has been great but so they launched the
first of many upcoming AI features and
they've been able to price that in such
a way that our guess is it'll probably
be 100 million plus ARR business in the
near term for them and they're charging
essentially an upsell of $7 to $10 to be
able to turn on notion Ai and there's I
think some fundamentally really
important lessons here in terms of how
notion has executed so the first thing
is they turned this feature on to a user
base of 30 million people including
their very much growing Enterprise
practice so think about just the
expansion opportunity there and the
embedded distribution is just a
fundamentally huge Advantage right
secondly when I'm using notion AI I'm
using it in my workflow I'm using it in
a tool that I use daytoday and it has
now access to my data to my workflows
and as you guys know these models are
incredibly generalizable but what makes
them really useful is when you feed them
very unique and often private data right
so that's a huge advantage that they
have access to that and then finally now
that we've spent a bunch of time talking
to akshai and Ivan and the team and
really understanding kind of their
philosophy around how they're using
generative AI it's very clear that this
one notion AI that you guys maybe have
access to now is a single feature but
they think about generative AI as core
technology as electricity which means
that they have now gone back to their
original strategy that they had eight
nine years ago which was making tool
making ubiquitous that's the core
Mission and they're thinking about all
the ways in which generative AI can now
power that which is is how everyone we
think should be thinking about
generative AI we'll share one more
example and then go from there so lastly
I'll end on another great example
gorgeous we thought we'd bring this up
because Jason the founder of saster is
actually an investor in this company and
we've gotten close to Raman and the team
over time for those of you unfamiliar
with Gorgeous it is a ticketing platform
for customer support focused just on
e-commerce and really started primarily
with Shopify so I have this really
constrained use case of how do
e-commerce Merchants actually manage and
interact with their own customers they
started the business in 2015 the
original thesis was actually to automate
that turns out just like me a jobber it
was pretty hard they actually couldn't
do it and so they ended up building kind
of the workflows and software support
system to enable individuals to go in
and do that and respond to customers at
the end of last year they ended up
launching automations turns out their
customers actually don't know what AI is
nor do they care about it but what they
do care about is not having to respond
to their customers to give a better
customer experience to their end
customers so they launched automations
they launched it as an add-on product
pric at about 50% of the core offering
and initially it started to automate 7%
of tickets it's gotten up to 18% today
they think within the next six to 12
months they'll be able to automate 50%
of the back and forth interactions
between e-commerce merchants and their
end customers again have significant
amounts of data that they can train this
on they already have distribution they
are I think the largest ticketing
platform for Shopify and already have
distribution across 10,000 plus
Merchants that could leverage this and
they were able to actually innovate in a
way that makes their business model much
more attractive and a higher attention
product for their own
customers and so moving on we'll talk
through a little bit of what we've been
seeing from the business model
perspective so we're seeing a few things
happen number one we're seeing arpu
increase acvs increase and LTV go up
some of that is by launching essentially
add-on products this can be priced as a
subscription fee or it can be priced
transactionally I.E per conversation in
the example of gorgeous which they're
actually switching to after starting
with a subscription model and we're
seeing that price typically at 50 to
100% of the core offering on average
about half their customers are adopting
it so you get 30% increase in arpu an
increase in LTV secondly we're seeing uh
drop in costs so in the case case of
medical billing or in the case of QA
testing for software you still have to
do those things with humans you're still
going to have to do them with humans but
you need a lot less of them when you can
leverage generative AI to do that and so
you're those businesses are not dropping
their prices by the way they're keeping
them the same and so you actually get a
significant margin increase that
increases your LTV lastly we're seeing
retention increase pretty dramatically
across businesses with data distribution
and the right use case and so that's
increasing LTV as well the other thing
we've been noticing is some Forward
Thinking companies are pulling it into
their onboarding and conversion funnels
better product offering can actually
increase conversion anywhere from 20 to
50% and so it's another area that we're
paying attention to overall we think for
the right types of businesses this could
have a really dramatic impact on
increased Revenue growth cutting costs
increasing profit margins ultimately
creating a lot more entprise PR value
and then lastly returning to our
hypothesis as we think back through
Cloud through mobile what can we learn
from them one thing that's interesting
is Amazon actually wasn't built as a
cloud business wasn't built as a storage
company it was an incumbent e-commerce
business they just happened to launch
AWS and they ended up capturing way more
value just them in and of themselves
then the entire on-prem storage Market
before them we're also seeing Google
capture a ton of Val through Cloud even
entering much later right we're seeing
Microsoft do the same with Azure meta
was not a mobile company wasn't built as
a mobile company they captured more
value from mobile than AT&T Verizon Etc
combined right just meta we think the
same thing could happen in generative AI
that doesn't mean there aren't going to
be upstarts that win here there
definitely will be but where is most
value going to be captured our view
again is incumbents are going to capture
a lot we're already starting to see that
right meta Google ET Etc are have traded
up dramatically this year Nvidia has
traded up dramatically they're capturing
a ton of value already um but we're also
going to see a lot of upstarts as well
just have to be really careful where you
play and so Lucy maybe with that I can
pass it over to you in terms of some of
our key takeaways we'd like to leave you
guys with and then we'll open it up for
questions yeah absolutely so any
upstarts building with generative AI in
the audience okay there so you maybe
you're thinking we're telling you to
stand down that is not what we're trying
to say what we're saying is actually in
order to beat the incumbents at anything
you're you're going to have to be even
more strategic and so here are if TJ and
I were building an upstar business and
using generative AI here's what we would
be asking ourselves the first question
would be what niche market or vertical
can you absolutely dominate not rejigger
a slight solution to but actually
dominate in a way that's not completely
not adjacent to particular incumbents
the second thing and and I hope that the
presentation really nailed this
particular point but retention is
absolutely key and generative AI has
actually fundamentally shifted the way
that consumers and users actually expect
to interact with your product for
example in a more conversational like
Manner and so what can you change about
your product to really Drive product
Market fit in a way that tackles all of
the retention issues that some of these
upstarts are facing and then finally and
this is core to everyone in the room
building around this but how do you make
generative AI
core and foundational to your product
and not just a feature and I will say
that some of the most interesting
generative AI companies that I've met
don't even talk about generative AI they
don't even mention it but it's powering
everything in the background and what
they're selling is just a value prop
obviously maybe you wouldn't do that
because the multiples are so high with
generative AI now but you're building a
business for the long term and it's
really fundamental to keep this point in
mind those building in the incumbents
any incumbents in the room building okay
we've got a few lonely folks so here are
the questions we would be asking
ourselves if we were incumbents building
here the first is let's go back to our
original Mission and the core problem
you were solving for your customer and
what are the one two or three problems
you can now solve that you just couldn't
before when you were starting because
this technology did not exist and how do
you tackle those and throw resources
against those the second thing we want
you to do is take out your p&l take out
whatever metrics dashboard you use and
go through every metric and ask yourself
how can generative AI actually help me
optimize my cogs optimize my LTV
optimize my conversion whatever it might
be and the last question is we talked a
lot about the pace of AI Innovation and
you guys can see this it's dramatically
fast so how do you actually experiment
in test in a way that meets the pace
required for this platform shift and
there may cultural organizational
changes you might need to make in order
to be able to do that thank you for your
time thank you guys so much really
appreciate you all coming all right
thanks off